---
title: "1 Preliminaries"
description: "Notes for Python beginners"
navigation:
  index: 2
  icon: i-ph-info-duotone
---

## 1.1 What Kinds of Data?

We often mention "data" in our daily lives, talking about analyzing data or refining data. But what exactly does this data refer to? The primary focus is on "structured data," which is a somewhat vague term that mainly includes the following types:

1. Tabular or spreadsheet-like data in which each column may be a different type (string, numeric, date, or otherwise). This includes most kinds of data commonly stored in relational databases or tab- or comma-delimited text files.

2. Multidimensional arrays (matrices).

3. Multiple tables of data interrelated by key columns (what would be primary or foreign keys for a SQL user).

4. Evenly or unevenly spaced time series.


## 1.2 Why Python for Data Analysis?

Everyone has likely heard of Python to some extent in their daily life or studies, and may even be required to learn Python in school. The reason for this is that Python, as a "glue language", can easily integrate C, C++ and FORTRAN code in scientific computing. It can be simply understood as a popular language.

## 1.3 Essential Python Libraries
The most important are `NumPy` and `Pandas`, which we primarily focus on for our explanations.

### NumPy

[NumPy](https://numpy.org/)，short for Numerical Python, has long been the foundation for numerical computing in Python. It provides the data structures, algorithms, and library glue needed for most scientific applications involving numerical data in Python.

### pandas

[pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/) provides high-level data structures and functions designed to make working with structured or tabular data intuitive and flexible. Since its emergence in 2010, it has helped make Python a powerful and productive environment for data analysis. The primary objects in pandas that we'll focus on are the DataFrame, a tabular, column-oriented data structure with both row and column labels, and the Series, a one-dimensional labeled array object.

### matplotlib

[matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org/)  is the most popular Python library for producing plots and other two-dimensional data visualizations. It was originally created by John D. Hunter and is now maintained by a large team of developers. It's designed for creating publication-quality plots. While there are other visualization libraries available to Python programmers, matplotlib is still the most widely used and is well-integrated with the rest of the ecosystem. I think it's a safe choice as the default visualization tool.

### IPython 和 Jupyter

[IPython](https://ipython.org/) The IPython project began in 2001 as Fernando Pérez's side project to make a better interactive Python interpreter. In the subsequent 20 years, it has become one of the most important tools in the modern Python data stack. In 2014, Fernando and the IPython team announced the Jupyter project, a broader initiative to design language-agnostic interactive computing tools. The IPython web notebook became the Jupyter notebook, which now supports over 40 programming languages. The IPython system can now be used as a kernel (programming language mode) for using Python with Jupyter.

### SciPy

[SciPy](https://scipy.org/) is a collection of packages addressing a number of different standard problem domains in scientific computing.

### scikit-learn

[scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/) has become the premier general-purpose machine learning toolkit for Python programmers since its inception in 2007.

### statsmodels

[statsmodels](https://statsmodels.org/) is a statistical analysis package that was seeded by work done by Stanford statistics professor Jonathan Taylor, who implemented a number of regression analysis models popular in R.

## 1.4 Python Beginners

If you are completely new to Python or programming, you may need to spend some time reading Chapter 2: Python Language Basics, IPython, and Jupyter Notebooks and Chapter 3: Built-in Data Structures, Functions, and Files, where I have placed a condensed tutorial on the Python language features, IPython shell, and Jupyter notebooks. This material is essential knowledge for the rest of the book. If you already have Python experience, you may wish to skim or skip these sections.

Next, I give a short introduction to NumPy's key features, then I move on to pandas.

People may learn Python for different purposes, but generally it can be divided into these parts:

- Interacting with the outside world
- Preparation of data: cleaning, munging, combining, normalizing, reshaping, slicing and dicing, and transforming data for analysis
- Transformation of data: applying mathematical and statistical operations to groups of datasets to derive new datasets (e.g., aggregating a large table by group variables)
- Modeling and computation: connecting your data to statistical models, machine learning algorithms, or other computational tools
- Presentation: creating interactive or static graphical visualizations or textual summaries


### Code Examples

Most of the code examples in the book show input and output, like when executed in an IPython shell or Jupyter notebook:

```
In [5]: CODE EXAMPLE
Out[5]: OUTPUT

```

When you see a code example like this, the intention is for you to type the example code into the `In` block in your coding environment, and execute it by pressing Enter (or Shift-Enter in Jupyter). You should see output similar to what is displayed in the `Out` block.

You can execute the following Python code before running the code example:

```
import numpy as np
import pandas as pd
pd.options.display.max_columns = 20
pd.options.display.max_rows = 20
pd.options.display.max_colwidth = 80
np.set_printoptions(precision=4, suppress=True)

```

### Example Data

Each chapter's example dataset is hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com/wesm/pydata-book) (if GitHub is inaccessible, there is a [mirror on Gitee](https://gitee.com/wesmckinn/pydata-book)). You can download these data by using the Git version control system in the command line, or by downloading the zip file of the repository from the website. If you encounter any issues, please refer to the [book website](https://wesmckinney.com/book) for the latest instructions on obtaining the book materials.

If you download the zip file containing the example dataset, you must fully extract the contents of the zip file to a directory, and then navigate to that directory in the terminal before continuing to run the code examples in the book:

```
$ pwd
/home/jack/book-materials

$ ls
appa.ipynb  ch05.ipynb  ch09.ipynb  ch13.ipynb  README.md
ch02.ipynb  ch06.ipynb  ch10.ipynb  COPYING     requirements.txt
ch03.ipynb  ch07.ipynb  ch11.ipynb  datasets
ch04.ipynb  ch08.ipynb  ch12.ipynb  examples
```


